=encoding utf-8


=head1 Name

lua-resty-cookie - This library parses HTTP Cookie header for Nginx and returns each field in the cookie.



This library is production ready.


=head1 Synopsis


        lua_package_path "/path/to/lua-resty-cookie/lib/?.lua;;";
    
        server {
            location /test {
                content_by_lua '
                    local ck = require "resty.cookie"
                    local cookie, err = ck:new()
                    if not cookie then
                        ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                        return
                    end
    
                    -- get single cookie
                    local field, err = cookie:get("lang")
                    if not field then
                        ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                        return
                    end
                    ngx.say("lang", " => ", field)
    
                    -- get all cookies
                    local fields, err = cookie:get_all()
                    if not fields then
                        ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                        return
                    end
    
                    for k, v in pairs(fields) do
                        ngx.say(k, " => ", v)
                    end
    
                    -- set one cookie
                    local ok, err = cookie:set({
                        key = "Name", value = "Bob", path = "/",
                        domain = "example.com", secure = true, httponly = true,
                        expires = "Wed, 09 Jun 2021 10:18:14 GMT", max_age = 50,
                        samesite = "Strict", extension = "a4334aebaec"
                    })
                    if not ok then
                        ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                        return
                    end
    
                    -- set another cookie, both cookies will appear in HTTP response
                    local ok, err = cookie:set({
                        key = "Age", value = "20",
                    })
                    if not ok then
                        ngx.log(ngx.ERR, err)
                        return
                    end
                ';
            }
        }


=head1 Methods




=head2 new

C<syntax: cookie_obj = cookie()>

Create a new cookie object for current request. You can get parsed cookie from client or set cookie to client later using this object.




=head2 get

C<syntax: cookie_val, err = cookie_obj:get(cookie_name)>

Get a single client cookie value. On error, returns C<nil> and an error message.




=head2 get_all

C<syntax: fields, err = cookie_obj:get_all()>

Get all client cookie key/value pairs in a lua table. On error, returns C<nil> and an error message.




=head2 set


    syntax: ok, err = cookie_obj:set({
        key = "Name",
        value = "Bob",
        path = "/",
        domain = "example.com",
        secure = true, httponly = true,
        expires = "Wed, 09 Jun 2021 10:18:14 GMT",
        max_age = 50,
        samesite = "Strict",
        extension = "a4334aebaec"
    })

Set a cookie to client. This will add a new 'Set-Cookie' response header. C<key> and C<value> are required, all other fields are optional.
If the same cookie (whole cookie string, e.g. "Name=Bob; Expires=Wed, 09 Jun 2021 10:18:14 GMT; Max-Age=50; Domain=example.com; Path=/; Secure; HttpOnly;") has already been setted, new cookie will be ignored.




=head1 Installation

You need to compile L<ngx_lua|https://github.com/chaoslawful/lua-nginx-module/tags> with your Nginx.

You need to configure
the L<lua_package_path|https://github.com/chaoslawful/lua-nginx-module#lua_package_path> directive to
add the path of your C<lua-resty-cookie> source tree to ngx_lua's Lua module search path, as in

    # nginx.conf
    http {
        lua_package_path "/path/to/lua-resty-cookie/lib/?.lua;;";
        ...
    }

and then load the library in Lua:

    local ck = require "resty.cookie"




=head1 Authors

Jiale Zhi E<lt>vipcalio@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.

Yichun Zhang (agentzh) E<lt>agentzh@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.




=head1 Copyright and License

This module is licensed under the BSD license.

Copyright (C) 2013, by Jiale Zhi E<lt>vipcalio@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.

Copyright (C) 2013, by Yichun Zhang E<lt>agentzh@gmail.comE<gt>, CloudFlare Inc.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


=over


=item *

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.


=back


=over


=item *

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.


=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.



